# Nakul-Bajaj-WWDC-18-Submission
A quick glance at my SceneKit powered playground submission for the WWDC 18 scholarship.

YouTube Video:
https://youtu.be/rHdn6DxKBbY

# Essay Answers

## Technologies I Used

  As I set out to create a playground which would be interactive, I believed that I needed to use a creative visual outlet as a tool to explain and demonstrate a complex subject. After all, a picture is a worth a thousand words, and creating a graphic aid for an abstract idea would be one of the more beneficial use cases for a Swift Playground. The more I thought about it, I recognized that the field of chemistry commonly depended on metaphysical concepts. So, I asked my chemistry teacher if he had a simulation in mind that could assist him in teaching a specific topic.
  Almost immediately, he asked me if I could build a model that would represent the electronegativities of elements and reveal how they corresponded to bond length. We had learned about electronegativities earlier in the year. They were constant numbers assigned to different elements. The larger the electronegativity difference was in a compound, the more strength each of the bonds had. As I reflected more on what my teacher, Mr. Irvine, had said, I realized that I could indeed show the factors that contributed to variations in chemical bond length for a substance, and then build a three-dimensional model of the entire substance as an example.
  Eventually, I decided that this would be my goal for my Swift Playground, and I was excited to begin. What my Playground needed was a combination of an elegant design to describe the details of each bond, a representation of the electronegativity table, and a three-dimensional environment to display a space-filled model of a substance. In order to build such illustrative features, I used plenty of UIKit and CoreGraphics animations, which would let me adjust the positions and transparencies of different elements over time. I also used the SceneKit framework to enable the exploration of models in depth, with built-in functionalities for panning, tilting, zooming, and rotating. However, since my Playground ran on macOS, I had to enable a control system that would allow such movements of the space-fill models using a Mac keyboard and trackpad, without benefit of a touch screen. To invoke two-finger drags, users can hold down the Shift key along with the Option key as they move their mouse. Additionally, the Option key can be held down for the zoom and rotate components of the control system. Lastly, I took advantage of the AVFoundation framework to play unique sound effects when buttons were tapped on.
  My hopes for the future of this Playground include being able to build the included demos into a full-fledged app that can compute and draw bond length simply by knowing the elements involved in a compound, their charges, and their electro-negativities. Needless to say, building this Swift Playground has been an adventure for me, and as I appreciate the use of computer science as a modern tool for education, I have become much more enthusiastic about using developer frameworks to build projects for the classroom.

## Sharing my coding knowledge

  One year ago, I realized that I had a passion for teaching others which had manifested itself in unique ways. For example, as one of the more experienced members of our school’s congressional debate team, I helped the newest participants with constructing arguments and speeches. I am also driven to teach other students as I remind myself of the countless ways others have invested their own time and effort to assist me, such as when I had first played water polo during my freshman year and much of the team supported me while I learned the ins and outs of the game. Teaching moments would also arise in my computer science classes, in which students would ask for my help on numerous occasions, and I would improve my skills in explaining complex concepts. Recently, I have looked for and found new ways to spread my interest and knowledge about computer science throughout my community. 
  One time during which I am reminded of this goal is when I bike to school. My path includes an intersection where many of San Jose’s homeless live and ask for food. As I cross this portion of my route, I always seem to think to myself about what we can do as the citizens of the Bay Area to alleviate the prevalent issues of financial inequality. Thus, I am committed to using each of my resources to their fullest potential to avoid wasted opportunities. 
  As one of my favorite quotes from former President Barack Obama explains, “don’t just buy a new video game – make one. Don’t just download the latest app – help design it. Don’t just play on your phone – program it.” In order to enable others in computer science, I have introduced my peers to hackathons, or twenty-four-hour events with the goal of developing useful software as team. In fact, this past October, I attended a hackathon with a novice coder as part of my team. Surprisingly, we were able to collectively win the first-place prize. Events like these inspire me to continue to learn and teach more. 
  I am the founder and organizer of HarkerHacks, our school’s first hackathon to be held in May at 42 Silicon Valley. The event is open to all high school students at no charge. My goal is to encourage students at my own school, but also their friends at other schools, to participate and expand their curiosity and interest in computer science. 
  I am currently enrolled in two Computer Science courses at school. In AP Computer Science, I help those who need assistance for their projects and labs by slowly guiding them to the solution with hints. In the Data Analytics with Python class, I enjoy sharing code snippets that can make data visualization easier with tables and graphs. Given my own level of confidence, encouragement from my teachers, and the opportunity that my school provides, I plan to serve as a teaching assistant for my middle school’s computer science program.

